Objectives

These lab exercises give you hands-on experience with the following subjects:

    Landing Page

    Administration Portal

    Search Facility

    Tags

    Bookmarks

    Hosts Tab

    The Virtual Machines Tab

    VM in More Detail

    Hooks (Optional)

    Pools Tab

    Users Tab

    Permissions

    User and Power User Portals

    Reports Portal

    VM with Graphical Interface

    Demo Live VM Migration

    

    These lab activities contain text and procedures.

    Read the text carefully. The information prepares you to demo the product and shows features of the Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization environment.

    The labs are integrated into the different modules. The procedures can be used later when you do a demo for a customer.

    To complete the labs, you need to access the environment with either a Linux- or Windows-based computer.

    If you are using MAC OS, you may have trouble completing the labs. Try installing either a Windows or Linux VM.




ab 12: Permissions

The Permission tab is common to almost every entity in the Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization environment. This tab provides the tools to define who is allowed to do what in the Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization environment.

This lab shows you how to demonstrate permissions in an environment based on Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization. The Virtual Machines tab is a good starting point to learn about permissions.
    How to set permissions and how they work is covered in detail in the Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization Implementation course.

    Select one of your VMs and click the lower Permissions tab. You get a list of the users who have permissions on the selected VM.

    Move between the different VMs and explore what users have permissions.
        You may notice that VMs who are part of a pool do not have permissions associated with them. This is because the permissions were given at the pool level.
    Permissions Tab




Lab 2: Administration Portal

    Browse to the Administration Portal login screen at:

    https://rhevm-GUID.rhpds.opentlc.com/ovirt-engine/webadmin

        The first thing you need to demonstrate and point out when doing a demo of the environment is the built-in language support.

    Click the language area to get a list of the currently supported languages.
    Admin Portal Login
    Figure 1. Administration Portal login

    Enter your username and password in the login window.

        Username: admin

        Password: r3dh@t1!

        Domain: internal

    After you log in, review the tabs in the upper part of the screen.

        These tabs represent the building blocks of the environment. Using them allows you to focus on one area when performing administrative tasks. You will learn about each of these tabs during the remaining lab exercises.
        Admin Portal Upper Tabs
        Figure 2. Administration Portal tabs

    Click the different tabs and notice how the screen changes according to the selected tab.

        On the left there is a tree structure of the environment.

        If you click a folder, the view on the right adjusts itself to show only the selected item.

        The following two figures illustrate clicking the Networks folder.
        Portal Tree Structure
        Figure 3. Portal tree structure
        Portal External Providers
        Figure 4. Administration Portal - Networks folder
            The External Providers folder (lower left ) is for components used to integrate the Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization environment with other environments such as Red Hat Enterprise Linux OpenStack Platform.

    Click some of the other items in the tree structure on the left and compare how the screen changes to how it changes when you click different tabs.
        If you are missing tabs from the display, look at the folders on the left and verify that you have either System or your datacenter highlighted.






