Apache SpamAssassin

Apache SpamAssassin is the #1 Open Source anti-spam platform giving
system administrators a filter to classify email and block "spam"
(unsolicited bulk email).  It uses a robust scoring framework and plug-ins
to integrate a wide range of advanced heuristic and statistical analysis
tests on email headers and body text including text analysis, Bayesian 
filtering, DNS blocklists, and collaborative filtering databases.


Courier IMAP server

The Courier IMAP server is a fast, scalable, enterprise IMAP server that uses Maildirs. Many E-mail service providers use the Courier IMAP server to easy handle hundreds of thousands of mail accounts. With its built-in IMAP and POP3 aggregation proxy, the Courier IMAP server has practically infinite horizontal scalability. In a proxy configuration, a pool of Courier servers service initial IMAP and POP3 connections from clients. They wait to receive the client's log in request,
look up the server that actually holds this mail account's mailbox, and establish a proxy connection to the server, all in a single, seamless process. Mail accounts can be moved between different servers, to achieve optimum resource usage.

The only practical limitation on the Courier IMAP server is available network and I/O bandwidth. If you are new to the Courier IMAP server, this may sound a bit intimidating. But you do not need to tackle everything at once. Start by taking small, easy steps. Your first step will be to set up a small the Courier IMAP server server, using it like any other traditional IMAP service, on a single server. After you gain experience and become comfortable with Courier, you can then
begin exploring its advanced features.



Amavis

Amavis is an open source content filter for electronic mail, implementing mail message transfer, decoding, some processing and checking, and interfacing with external content filters to provide protection against spam, viruses and other malware.



ClamAV

Clam AntiVirus is an open source (GPL) anti-virus toolkit for UNIX, designed especially
for e-mail scanning on mail gateways. It provides a number of utilities including
a flexible and scalable multi-threaded daemon, a command line scanner and advanced
tool for automatic database updates. The core of the package is an anti-virus engine
available in a form of shared library.
