Course 3124

SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 12 Administration

This course is designed for those who are seeking a fundamental understanding of the SUSE Linux Enterprise Server (SLES) operating system.

Attendees will be taught the following concepts and skills that are fundamental in administering the SLES Operating System:

•    Install SLES 12 and perform basic Linux configuration steps
•    Become familiar with the command line interface and the most important commands
•    Manage users and permissions
•    Manage processes and jobs
•    Manage software
•    Use basic network commands and NFS

Key Objectives
Students will be able to install and configure a SLES 12 server and integrate it into an existing network. They will be able to do the most important system administrator tasks.

Course Outline
1. What is SUSE Linux Enterprise?

Understand the different flavors of SUSE Linux
Understand the SUSE Linux Enterprise maintenance model
Install SLES12
Introduction to the GNOME Desktop
Understand YaST
Understand the Filesystem Hierarchy Standard
Get to Know the Linux File Types


2. Work with the Command Line

Define and Explain the Shell Environment
Use the Most Important Commands
Get Help at the Command Line
Work with the VIM Text Editor
Use OpenSSH for Command Line Remote Administration


3. System Initialization

Understand the SLE12 Boot Process
Understand UEFI, Secure Boot, and Trusted Execution
Configure the GRUB2 Bootloader
Define and Manage Services with systemd


4. Process Management

Manage Processes
Work with Background Processes
Schedule Processes


5. Identity and Security

Manage Users and Groups
Change File Permissions
Delegate Privileges (su)


6. Manage Software

Manage RPM Packages
Manage Software Repositories and Libzypp


7. Network Management

Use Basic Network Commands
Configure Network Interfaces
Manage Networks with Wicked
Set Up SUSEfirewall2


8. Storage

Configure Partitioning (MBR and GPT)
Recognize Traditional Linux File Systems
Introduction to BtrFS
Configure Software RAID
Configure Logical Volume Management (LVM)


9. Administration and Monitoring

Configure Time Synchronization
Configure System Logging
Use Supportconfig


10. Hardware Management

Display Hardware Information
Manage Drivers

